Let's touch on pattern matching.
So pattern matching is a relatively new
feature in C#, so definitely useful.
So let's talk about what it means and
what it is and why it's important.
So there are certain times when you
may not know a type at runtime,
it may be of one of several types.
And this is typically true when you're
dealing with objects that may come from
different sources,
we'll see examples of that further in.
But you can do what's
called a type pattern, so
let me show an example of this.
Let me declare, delete all this
good stuff, boom, boom, okay?
So we can say that if we, for some reason,
don't know that this value is string,
we may want to check to see if
it is an instance of string.
So this is the statement that
you would use to do that.
So "is" is the operator in which tells
you is this thing a string or not.
And if it is, we can actually declare
it and capture this in a variable here.
Used to, you had to do this,
evaluate string,
you have to re-declare the string and
re-do what's called casting,
which has changed the type as a string.
But even then,
if you do that It will suggest, hey,
you should really use pattern matching for
this.
So this is just a little bit of what
we like to call syntactic sugar,
something that developers like to read and
like to write that makes their jobs
a little easier,
makes their eyes a little happier.
It's like eye bleach.
So I prefer the syntax,
re-declaring the variable,
right here is just useful,
it just captures that type for you so
you don't have to worry about
re-declaring it and then casting it.
So, kinda helpful, super helpful, in fact.
There are other types of pattern matching,
I'm gonna touch on them.
I'm just gonna show you that they exist.
They're not stuff that I use a ton of,
but they do exist.
You can check to see if
a value is equal to a specific
constant with the "is" statement.
And you might be thinking to yourself,
well, that's cool,
why wouldn't you just use a double equals,
which you could.
But it really becomes important when
you look at something like this,
where you might be determining whether or
not a number fits within a certain range.
Is it greater than or equal to 0,
and is it or, and is it less than or
equal to 100?
So you can compose these
statements multiple ways inside of
your pattern matching statement,
which is really useful.
Another thing to point out is that
once you have this variable declared,
you can this, string variable declared
here, you can say and str.Length.
You can access the string the same
way that you could inside of
the statement here, so
you can continue to operate on it.
I do wanna point out, and this is skipping
ahead to the operator's part a little bit,
that only really applies when you're
using what's called a double and.
Or basically, a short circuiting and,
which we'll talk about.
Essentially, that means that if this is
false, this statement will not execute.
But even if this is false, even if
the left side of the statement is false,
this statement will still try to execute
and C# will complain that this is invalid.
Because you basically have said, I want
you to execute this even if this is not
a string, but I can't have declared this
as a string because it's not a string,
we've determined that, so
little bit of importance.
So pattern matching just gives
you a little bit better syntax,
or a little bit easier syntax to use for
for
operating on the variables that you
have declared inside of your program.
This is a really interesting one,
property patterns, we'll talk about that.
This is skipping ahead just
a little bit on classes, but
you can say that if you
have a person object,
a person with the name of John and
the age of 30, and is match to see,
does this property name equal John and
does their age equal 30?
In practice, I don't do this a ton, I do
this sometimes where I say, if I'm looking
at a collection and I wanna say, does
this length greater than or equal to 0?
But in that case, I usually just write
it out, and I simply do that because
I think that syntax is more common and
I think developers know it more.
Lastly, I'll just touch on it, but
this is something I don't even
think I've written this once.
But it's important to know that
if you're working on tuples,
you can use that "is" statement and check to
see if this tuple is of a certain value.
So you could say, is it one,
and is this value a string, and
is this value equal to true?
And if so, the tuple matches the pattern.
So a lot of flexibility, I think
pattern matching is pretty useful and
I think that for the most part,
I think that the IDE and
the tooling gives you a really
good idea of when you can use it.
So again, as opposed to re-declaring the,
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Thing here,
the IDE will give you little squiggles and
say, hey, you can use pattern matching.
It's a good way to discover language
features kinda naturally as you're kind of
cutting your teeth in C#, it's one of
the things I love about the ecosystem.